# Regression analysis and resampling methods

## Overview of files:

- plotting.py: Contains the graphic functions
- functions.py: Contains the analysis functions
- info_functions.txt: a file with descriptions of the functions in functions.py
- tools.py: general tools such as SVD etc.
- main_ols.py: the ordinary least squares regression
- main_lasso.py: the Lasso Regression
- main_ridge.py: the Ridge Regression
- run.sh: Simple bash script that runs the analysis.py
- clean.sh: Bash script which deletes the output folders etc. in case a clean run is wanted.

## How to run:
You can run the analysis with the command

```
$ source run.sh
```

If they do not exist already, the following folders are created:
- output/figures/franke
- output/figures/data

If they do exist, this script will save figures in the existing folders.\

After the folders are created, you will be asked to choose weather you want to run on real data stored in "datafiles/", or on the Franke Function

```
$ source run.sh
```

The script clean.sh removes the folders created by run.sh and can be executed by writing:

```
 Do you want to run on the Franke Function [f] or real data [d]?
```

Type the key d and enter to run on real data or f enter, to run on data generated by the franke function. Next question is:

```
 Do you want OLS [o], RIDGE [r], LASSO [l] or all [a]?
```
Type the one you want, followed by enter. The analysis may take some time if a is chosen.


**NOTE**: clean.sh deletes the output folders. If you already have a personal folder named output which is unrelated to this project, you should rename it.

## Credit

Builds on example-code used/created by Morten Hjorth-Jensen for the class [FYS-STK4155](https://github.com/CompPhysics/MachineLearning/)

### Notes
- When running on real data, the statistics calculations of R2 and MSE with formula differs from the sklearn calculations.
- Figures are saved in both pdf and png format for easy viewing in the atom editor. To stop this simply remove the plt.savefig("----.png") lines in plotting.py
